Now we're going to look at searching inside a binary search tree.
It's quite similar to what we did with insertion.
We have a tree here, and we want to check if four exists in this tree.
We'll start out by comparing it with the root.
Here four is less than six,
so we're going to traverse to the left.
Now we compare it with three,
four is greater than three, so we go right.
Now four is not in the right subtree of three,
and if it did exist in there,
it would be in this right subtree.
But since three doesn't have a right child,
we know that four is not there,
so we can return none or we can return false depending on the implementation choice.
Here's a second example.
We're going to search for seven to see if seven is in the tree.
We'll start at the root. Seven is greater than six,
so we'll traverse right.
Now, seven equals seven,
so we can return this node itself or true.
The reason you may want to return this node is at my store
some additional information that's not in this node that you searched for,
and so you can return the node to extract some saved information in there.